{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Intentions\
Each time we enter the center, we step into a collectively held space. This is our shared practice container, where we water a collective intention to create and hold cherishable spaces rooted in safety and bravery. Such space is an environment in which we are witnessed and encouraged to express ourselves, without fear of attack, ridicule, or denial of experience. In its essence, a cherishable space invites us to risk intimacy, trust, and transformative love, and is mirrored by our practice and our sangha (practice community). \
We use the phrase \'93brave space\'94 with \'93safe space\'94 to evoke the possibility for fearlessness alongside the fleeting realities of safety. We carry and express varied histories, traumas, and experiences of oppression. We embody different forms of power, privilege, and entitlement. Conflict may arise, and at times we may not feel safe. \
Together we explore how to hold conflict with tenderness. We cherish our sangha and its members by taking responsibility for the impact of our actions. With bravery, we practice letting go of the conditioning that keeps us from sharing our vulnerability. We practice being curious and brave enough to acknowledge our blind spots, to ask for support, and to learn how to care for each other. We return to our intentions, and return to sangha. \
This is our practice of collective liberation. It will be uncomfortable, joyous, terrifying, and profound. And we begin again anew, in every moment, together.\
Community Agreements\
1. Arrive gently, be with\
To begin and end our meetings on time. Arrive and leave when best for you.\
2. Honor intimacy, privacy, confidentiality\
To not share the names or personal stories of anyone other than myself, now or later. If we want to follow up with anyone regarding something they said in community, we ask first and respect their wishes. \
3. Assume none, be one\
To not assume the race, class, gender, sexual orientation, or ability of anyone else. We have the individual option to share pronouns, and we will collectively respect pronouns. \
4. Dialogue over debate through mindful listening\
To listen deeply with our full attention, in body, heart, and mind. To listen to understand, not to respond. Be willing to be surprised, to learn something new. \
5. Practice care and consent\
To practice care and consent by participating in what feels right and speaking our needs and concerns as they arise, as much as we can. We can say \'93I pass\'94 or \'93No, thank you\'94  if we don\'92t wish to speak. Ask before touching, and feel free to say no to touch. Ask for permission before offering advice, unless directly asked. We will ask for support when we need it, and we will offer it when asked. \
6. Take care, respect our space and our time\
Appreciating how refreshing it is, to be in a place that is well cared for, we take care of ourselves and our community by keeping the center uncluttered and accessible, especially near doors, aisleways, bathrooms, kitchens, and tea area. \
7. Practice self focus and speak from the \'93I\'94\
To attend to and speak about our own experiences and responses. To speak using \'93I\'94 statements and not to speak for a whole group or express assumptions about the experience of others. \
8. Practice \'93both/and\'94\
To substitute \'93and\'94 for \'93but\'94 when speaking. This practice acknowledges and honors multiple realities. This also supports creating spaciousness around our binary ways. \
9. \'93Try it on\'94\
To be willing to \'93try on\'94 new ideas, or ways of doing things that might not be what we prefer or are familiar with. Try to be open to being changed by all viewpoints and ideas. Not knowing is most intimate. \
10. Understanding the difference between intent and impact\
To understand and acknowledge impact. Denying the impact of something said by focusing on intent is often more destructive than the initial interaction. \
11. Refrain from blaming or shaming self & others\
To practice giving skillful feedback and not performing quality control on other\'92s expressions, or our own, understanding that anger and hurt can come out as a shout, a stammer, a rage; and that these expressions, too deserve space and must be met with care. \
12. Taking space, making space\
Encourage full participation by all present, knowing that courage takes different forms for each of us. Take note of who is speaking and who is not. If you intend to speak often, consider \'93tuning in\'94 through mindful listening. If you tend to rest in silence, consider \'93making space\'94 by sharing your experience. }